README.md, before:

# Debug (Ultimate) TicTacToe
Hello! Welcome to CSM 61b's debugging project. We have coded up TicTacToe with some JUnit 4 unit & integration tests, but we also have snuck in a couple of bugs 🐜! There are some tutorials along the way to help teach how to use Intellij and speed up your debugging process. The solutions for the bugs include how I personally debugged these issues (some of them were real bugs I stumbled upon creating this project).

If you finish debugging the TicTacToe bugs give debugging our Ultimate TicTacToe project a shot. Ultimate TicTacToe is built upon TicTacToe project from the previous section but has some additional rules. [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=37PC0bGMiTI&t=103s) is a good YouTube video describing how Ultimate Tic Tac Toe works! Give debugging this bigger project a shot too (though with more code it is much harder).

This is a debugging project meaning, on the git repository I've added different git branches (which you can think of as versions of the code) with bugs added in. Follow the commands to get the bugged versions of the code into your local computer and try debugging them with Intellij!

## Getting Started
1\. clone & enter this repository first!
```
git clone https://github.com/darren-huang/debugUltTicTacToe.git
cd debugUltTicTacToe
```
2\. now pull the following branches into your repository
```
git checkout --track origin/UltTicTacToeBug1
git checkout --track origin/TicTacToeBug1
```
3\. check you are on the `TicTacToeBug1` branch
```
git status
```
- command should print `On branch TicTacToeBug1...`
- if it doesn't print that run `git checkout TicTacToeBug1`

## Begin Debugging `TicTacToeBug1`!
Start with `TicTacToeBug1` first! This is just the classic Tic Tac Toe game, but the only change is you can now specify
the size of the board and the number of pieces in a row you need to win (so you can play 5x5 tic tac toe etc.).

### Setup Intellij project
We'll be using IntelliJ as our IDE to do our debugging.
1. Open [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) (install it if you haven't already done so, here is [CS61b's setup guide](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61b/sp20/materials/lab/lab2/index.html#table-of-contents))
1. go to `File > New > Project From Existing Sources...` and select the `debugUltTicTacToe` folder
1. Press continue through all the menus
1. go to `File > Project Structure > Libraries` and select the `*jar` files inside `~cs61b-software/lib`
    1. if you are in CS61b and don't have the "cs61b-software" folder
       follow the [Berkeley CS61B instructions](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61b/sp20/materials/lab/lab2/index.html#table-of-contents) on how to get it.
    1. if you aren't in CS61b use this [link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eebQO1WoNoEJ4nxxzhxvHP7Tv7q8EB0R/view) to download & extract the "cs61b-software" folder

### Running the JUnit4 Unit & Integration tests
Before we set off bug hunting lets run the provided tests and see which one(s) fail
1. Open `TicTacToeBoardTest.java` in IntelliJ and look at line 6
1. To the left of `public class TicTacToeBoardTest {` you should see a green arrow. Click it and select `Create 'TicTacToeBoardTest'... > OK`
1. Now on the toolbar at the top (right below the `File, Edit, View..` row) you should see a green "►" button. Click this to run all the tests. One test should fail!

Here is a quick explanation of what we just did: Every time we click the "►" button we tell IntelliJ to run a "Run Configuration" which tells IntelliJ what code to run and how to run it. If you see the drop-down menu next to the "►" we can select which "Run Configuration" to run. When we right click a file and select the "►" run option, we tell Intellij just to run the main method of that file. 

By going through the steps we did to make a new JUnit Run Configuration, Intellij knows to run all the tests in that file and format the JUnit test output.

### Start Debugging!
Your task is to debug the issue with the code, fix the code, and pass the test! Quick info about the project:
- The bug is in `TicTacToeBoard.java`, this is where most of the board logic is
    - the most complex function is the "checkWin". This [design document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17cDhZXbFLUugbCaNCjQap4PMKvjLDWDMUUIfgKW-Aqs/edit?usp=sharing) has info on how it works.
- `TicTacToeBoardTest.java` contains the unit and integration tests. `makeMove()` Test is the integration test.
    - while these unit tests are decent, you should **never** assume a unit test passing implies the function it is testing is perfect

1. First step is to understand how the code works. Without a semi-decent understanding of how the code works, debugging can be almost impossible. Luckily in real projects you are debugging code you wrote and yourself, and luckily again this TicTacToe is relatively simple. Here are some steps to get acquinted in this project.
    1. Use the ["design document" on this project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17cDhZXbFLUugbCaNCjQap4PMKvjLDWDMUUIfgKW-Aqs/edit?usp=sharing)
       in order to get a better idea of what the code is doing.
    1. It is best to scroll through the code on Intellij and read the comments above each function



If you're done move on to `UltTicTacToeBug1` which passes  `TicTacToeBoardTest` but will fail a test in `UltBoardTest`.

## Switching between problems
currently there are 2 different bugged branches of the code. One is named UltTicTacToeBug1 and the other is named TicTacToeBug1
to switch in-between them, commit all your changes first then run
```
git checkout TicTacToeBug1
git checkout UltTicTacToeBug1
```

## Link Compilation!
- [Design Document/Notes on this project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17cDhZXbFLUugbCaNCjQap4PMKvjLDWDMUUIfgKW-Aqs/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Intellij/Debugging/Testing Tips](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17ugWs_ipBBRlZshpwPPjHoRLSLhtmohu6Rz8wQAZR7M/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Solutions to the Debugging Problems (SPOILER)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1opfU843rqPHkn_jHFXkbDJFtDu_oUqbxtuVcqn9f3d4/edit?usp=sharing)

Make sure to read the Design Document to get an understanding of how the code in this project
works. There a couple of tips and tricks provided for using Intellij, Debugging with Intellij, and creating unit Tests in
Intellij. (this project only expects you to debug, not write tests, but I used the Testing tips myself to create the tests
you see here)

## Solutions

[Solutions to the Debugging Problems (SPOILER)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1opfU843rqPHkn_jHFXkbDJFtDu_oUqbxtuVcqn9f3d4/edit?usp=sharing)

You can also get bug-free versions of the code with the following commands
```
git checkout --track origin/UltTicTacToe
git checkout --track origin/TicTacToe
```
you can move between these branches by checking them out, just remove the `--track origin/` from the command after the
first time you run them

Commit message:

recommended debugging steps mid progress

README.md, after:

# Debug (Ultimate) TicTacToe
Hello! Welcome to CSM 61b's debugging project. We have coded up TicTacToe with some JUnit 4 unit & integration tests, but we also have snuck in a couple of bugs 🐜! There are some tutorials along the way to help teach how to use Intellij and speed up your debugging process. The solutions for the bugs include how I personally debugged these issues (some of them were real bugs I stumbled upon creating this project).

If you finish debugging the TicTacToe bugs give debugging our Ultimate TicTacToe project a shot. Ultimate TicTacToe is built upon TicTacToe project from the previous section but has some additional rules. [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=37PC0bGMiTI&t=103s) is a good YouTube video describing how Ultimate Tic Tac Toe works! Give debugging this bigger project a shot too (though with more code it is much harder).

This is a debugging project meaning, on the git repository I've added different git branches (which you can think of as versions of the code) with bugs added in. Follow the commands to get the bugged versions of the code into your local computer and try debugging them with Intellij!

## Getting Started
1\. clone & enter this repository first! run:
```
git clone https://github.com/darren-huang/debugUltTicTacToe.git
cd debugUltTicTacToe
```
2\. now pull the following branches into your repository. run:
```
git checkout --track origin/UltTicTacToeBug1
git checkout --track origin/TicTacToeBug1
```
3\. check you are on the `TicTacToeBug1` branch. run:
```
git status
```
- command should print `On branch TicTacToeBug1...`
- if it doesn't print that run `git checkout TicTacToeBug1`

## Begin Debugging `TicTacToeBug1`!
Start with `TicTacToeBug1` first! This is just the classic Tic Tac Toe game, but the only change is you can now specify
the size of the board and the number of pieces in a row you need to win (so you can play 5x5 tic tac toe etc.).

### Setup Intellij project
We'll be using IntelliJ as our IDE to do our debugging.
1. Open [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) (install it if you haven't already done so, here is [CS61b's setup guide](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61b/sp20/materials/lab/lab2/index.html#table-of-contents))
1. go to `File > New > Project From Existing Sources...` and select the `debugUltTicTacToe` folder
1. Press continue through all the menus
1. go to `File > Project Structure > Libraries` and select the `*jar` files inside `~cs61b-software/lib`
    1. if you are in CS61b and don't have the "cs61b-software" folder
       follow the [Berkeley CS61B instructions](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61b/sp20/materials/lab/lab2/index.html#table-of-contents) on how to get it.
    1. if you aren't in CS61b use this [link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eebQO1WoNoEJ4nxxzhxvHP7Tv7q8EB0R/view) to download & extract the "cs61b-software" folder

### Running the JUnit4 Unit & Integration tests
Before we set off bug hunting lets run the provided tests and see which one(s) fail
1. Open `TicTacToeBoardTest.java` in IntelliJ and look at line 6
1. To the left of `public class TicTacToeBoardTest {` you should see a green arrow. Click it and select `Create 'TicTacToeBoardTest'... > OK`
1. Now on the toolbar at the top (right below the `File, Edit, View..` row) you should see a green "►" button. Click this to run all the tests. One test should fail!

Here is a quick explanation of what we just did: Every time we click the "►" button we tell IntelliJ to run a "Run Configuration" which tells IntelliJ what code to run and how to run it. If you see the drop-down menu next to the "►" we can select which "Run Configuration" to run. When we right click a file and select the "►" run option, we tell Intellij just to run the main method of that file. 

By going through the steps we did to make a new JUnit Run Configuration, Intellij knows to run all the tests in that file and format the JUnit test output.

### Start Debugging!
Your task is to debug the issue with the code, fix the code, and pass the test! 

#### Quick info about the project:
- The bug is in `TicTacToeBoard.java`, this is where all of the board logic is
    - the most complex function is the "checkWin". This [design document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17cDhZXbFLUugbCaNCjQap4PMKvjLDWDMUUIfgKW-Aqs/edit?usp=sharing) has info on how it works.
- `TicTacToeBoardTest.java` contains the unit and integration tests. `makeMove()` Test is the integration test.
    - while these unit tests are decent, you should **never** assume a unit test passing implies the function is bug-free
- `TicTacToeGame.java` adds some game logic forcing players to switch off turns and ending the game once someone wins (there shouldn't be any bugs here)
    - to play 3 x 3 version of tic tac toe run the main method of this file.

#### Recommended Debugging Steps
1. First step is to understand how the code works. Without a semi-decent understanding of how the code works, debugging can be almost impossible. Luckily in real projects you are debugging code you wrote and yourself, and luckily again this TicTacToe project isn't too complex. Here are some steps to get acquainted in this project.
    1. Use the ["design document" on this project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17cDhZXbFLUugbCaNCjQap4PMKvjLDWDMUUIfgKW-Aqs/edit?usp=sharing)
       in order to get a better idea of what the code is doing.
    1. In IntelliJ use `Ctrl Shift -`/`Cmd Shift -` to minimize all the code bodies to just see method signatures and associated comments. Unminimize stuff with `Ctrl Shift +`/`Cmd Shift +`. 



If you're done move on to `UltTicTacToeBug1` which passes  `TicTacToeBoardTest` but will fail a test in `UltBoardTest`.

## Switching between problems
currently there are 2 different bugged branches of the code. One is named UltTicTacToeBug1 and the other is named TicTacToeBug1
to switch in-between them, commit all your changes first then run
```
git checkout TicTacToeBug1
git checkout UltTicTacToeBug1
```

## Link Compilation!
- [Design Document/Notes on this project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17cDhZXbFLUugbCaNCjQap4PMKvjLDWDMUUIfgKW-Aqs/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Intellij/Debugging/Testing Tips](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17ugWs_ipBBRlZshpwPPjHoRLSLhtmohu6Rz8wQAZR7M/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Solutions to the Debugging Problems (SPOILER)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1opfU843rqPHkn_jHFXkbDJFtDu_oUqbxtuVcqn9f3d4/edit?usp=sharing)

Make sure to read the Design Document to get an understanding of how the code in this project
works. There a couple of tips and tricks provided for using Intellij, Debugging with Intellij, and creating unit Tests in
Intellij. (this project only expects you to debug, not write tests, but I used the Testing tips myself to create the tests
you see here)

## Solutions

[Solutions to the Debugging Problems (SPOILER)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1opfU843rqPHkn_jHFXkbDJFtDu_oUqbxtuVcqn9f3d4/edit?usp=sharing)

You can also get bug-free versions of the code with the following commands
```
git checkout --track origin/UltTicTacToe
git checkout --track origin/TicTacToe
```
you can move between these branches by checking them out, just remove the `--track origin/` from the command after the
first time you run them
